(MONEY FOR NOTHING BY DIRE STRAITS)
MTV...
(MUSIC)
(CROW CAWING)
(GLASS SHATTERS. WOMAN SCREAMS. GUNFIRE)
Kayce?
Kayce!
Baby. go to
the bunkhouse now.
- Kayce? What's happening?
- Monica!
Now! Into the bunkhouse. Right now.
- Tate?
- Mom. what happened?
- What happened?
- We gotta go. turn around.
(SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC PLAYING)
(WOMAN SCREAMS)
(TIRES SQUEAL. SIRENS BLARE)
Get down! Stay down!
- Jesus Christ.
- Get down!
(PHONE RINGING)
Rip? Get everyone back to the ranch.
- Someone just...
- Your dad's been shot.
- Where?
- Every-fucking-where. Kayce.
Listen. I want you to look
for a blue two-tone van
headed northbound on 540.
You understand?
- How bad is he?
- I'm an hour from the hospital.
He ain't got a fucking hour. Kayce.
Fuck! Send me your location.
and I'll send a CARE flight.
Let's do Hemet's pasture on 89.
Tell the chopper I'll fucking be there.
you got me?
We're looking for a blue two-tone van.
Going north on 540.
Give me a CARE flight
to Hemet's Pasture.
- Hemet's Pasture. now.
- Kayce.
I need you two units to stay here.
you come with me!
(TIRES SCREECH)
(ALARMS. SIRENS BLARING)
(HELICOPTER WHIRRING)
(EARS RINGING)
(NO AUDIBLE DIALOGUE)
Can I have one of those?
I'm gonna need a light.
(NO AUDIBLE DIALOGUE)
(MUSIC)
Tate?
(SCREAMS)
(GRUNTS)
Ah!
(GUNSHOT)
(GASPING)
Come here. Come on.
Let's go.
(MUSIC)
There's a man in the house.
Get to the bunkhouse.
What's happening?
I don't know.
Just get to the bunkhouse.
Come on. Tate.
Dispatch. we're eastbound
Mill Creek road. on 540.
Advise MHP. send every available unit.
Where the fuck are you hiding?
Third one back. Blue van!
Kayce. you can't do this here.
There's too many goddamn people.
Kayce. there's too many people.
Kayce!
Kayce. red Honda!
Hold your position!
Kayce. you good?
- Kayce!
Officer down!
We got an officer down! Multiple GSW!
Code 3. my location.
(PANTING)
(SAD MUSIC PLAYING)
(HELICOPTER WHIRRS)
There you are.
Mr. Wheeler.
this is Care flight seven...
Yeah. I know. I see you.
I'm coming around right now.
Don't you die on me.
John. don't you die on me now.
Not like this. You hear me?
Fuck!
(ENGINE REVVING)
(TIRES SCREECH)
(GUNSHOT)
Tate. get behind me. now.
WOMAN: Jimmy?
(DISTORTED GUNSHOTS)
(SHOUTING)
Jimmy!
Jimmy! Jimmy!
(MAN SHOUTING)
Oh. no. no. no. no.
(CRYING)
Oh. my God!
(SOBBING)
(HELICOPTER WHIRRS)
I got two guarding the house.
Yeah? How's Ethan?
He'll be all right.
Teeter took him to the vet.
Where are the bodies at?
In my truck.
Well. get fuckin' rid of 'em. Lloyd.
What's burning?
(LLOYD SIGHS)
Sorry. Rip. I just...
Didn't have the heart to tell ya.
(SIGHS)
Let's go.
(MUSIC)
(FIRE CRACKLING)
(THEME MUSIC PLAYING)
- Indians.
- Yeah.
Why aren't they on the reservation?
I don't know.
(GUN COCKS)
Do you know the way home?
All right. Stay here.
What do we do?
We do what he said. We stay here.
What do they want?
I don't know.
But they got a man at their camp
who speaks English.
Do you trust them?
Son. I don't trust anyone.
Till they've earned it.
Y'all stay close to me.
This your land now?
It is.
Used to be ours.
I'm not the one that took it from you.
Doesn't matter. Still got took.
You here to try to take it back?
Here to ask a favor.
Ask.
My father was born here.
This is where he'd like to rest.
So you want to bury him here?
I want to put him in that tree.
Where the wolves won't dig him up.
and he won't
spend the spring in the mud.
Where relatives can come visit.
He could find peace in that tree...
A long time ago.
Now there is no peace.
Maybe you sell this land
or lose it to a bank.
Then someone finds this tree
and scatters his bones.
Steals his sacreds.
Then he has no peace forever.
So...
I will bury him here if you'll let me.
I'll let you.
Where do you want to bury him?
Someplace no one finds him.
You included.
It's a long ride from the reservation.
Mm.
Eight sleeps.
- These horses look hungry.
- They are.
You look hungry too.
I'm used to being hungry.
Yeah.
It's been a hard winter.
All winters are hard.
This one...
This one is punishment.
Your horses can graze here
while you choose a spot
for your father.
I'll leave you a beef.
Your family can graze. too.
Thank you.
Boys...
Let's push these cattle out of here.
Cut out a steer for 'em. all right?
I'm sorry for you being punished.
We are. too.
Come on.
Ya! Ya.
(KISS)
Let's go. boys.
(GUNSHOT)
(CLICKS TONGUE)
(BEEPING)
That's a disconnect code.
- Dietician's in there?
- No one's in there.
Oh my God.
Oh my God. no.
JOHN: What is... What is today?
Thursday.
The month?
August.
You need to lay down.
Been laying down long enough.
We have a code three.
422 I.C.U.
- What's a code three?
- You are.
I'm not asking.
Daddy.
(GRUNTS)
What happened to you?
Same thing that happened to you.
Who else did it happen to?
Happened to all of us.
Mr. Dutton. we need to
get you back to bed.
Who did we lose?
Define lose. Daddy.
- Who did we lose?
- Get me some Persantine.
All right. Mr. Dutton.
we're going to sit you down.
Can I see your right hand?
Got to put this back in. okay?
Mr. Dutton. count back from
a hundred for me. okay?
- What?
- 99.
What are you doing? No. Dad.
No! What are you doing?
You tell me he'll never wake up
and when he does
you put him back to fucking sleep?
If he has a blood clot.
and I can promise you he does...
- Get your fucking hands off me!
- Movement can dislodge it
and send it into his heart
and then he woke up for nothing.
- Let me do my... Let me do my job.
- Daddy!
Keep her out here
until I say otherwise.
What happened to your face?
What happened to yours.
you insensitive little fuck?
Nothing happened to mine.
Yeah? You should go find a mirror.
My dad's dying.
So is mine.
What's killing yours?
Heroin.
21st century.
You mean like... time?
Yeah. something like that.
How does time kill?
With my family...
It sort of takes
the kitchen sink approach.
Don't know what that means.
You need to study harder
in school. kid.
I dropped out of school.
Why'd you do that?
Cause... Fuck it.
That's a winning attitude.
Well. you know what they say:
the world needs ditch diggers. too.
You got another one of those?
You're pretty cool.
Let's be honest...
You're probably going to be in jail
in a few years.
What's a cigarette gonna hurt?
Why do you say that?
Because your life is a mess
and you're perfectly fine with it
Because you've had no one to admire.
No one to set an example.
Now you're a lazy piece of shit. right?
But you're...
Handsomish and charming and smart enough
to bullshit your way
out of any trouble you get into. But...
One day you are gonna find
yourself some trouble
that you can't
bullshit your way out of.
You a therapist?
I am the rock
therapists break themselves against.
You're pretty good at it.
Well. you're pretty easy to analyze.
I used to love
guys like you in high school.
Give me a troubled loser with blue eyes
and I'd dry hump a hole in his jeans.
What's dry hump?
How old are you?
14.
Give me that fucking cigarette.
The fuck?
Jesus. I thought you were 17.
You need to come inside.
Am I in trouble?
No. you're not in trouble.
Are you a friend of the family?
I guess I am now.
You should come. too.
Shit.
Yeah.
So when these lines move vertically.
it's reading the electrical
impulses of the brain.
And when they level...
in this manner here.
it is displaying a...
Just tell him. dude.
Well. there's no brain activity.
The only thing keeping
your father alive is the machine.
What does that mean?
Well. the lack of brain activity
would suggest...
It means he's gone. honey.
Can he have some time to say goodbye?
There's a protocol we should discuss...
Yeah. no. Not today there isn't.
Get the fuck out.
Get the fuck out so he can say goodbye.
(AIR PUMPING)
Don't know what to say.
Say whatever you feel.
That's what you say.
(SNIFFS)
Fuck you.
Fuck you for leaving me in this place...
With nothing...
With nobody.
If there's a hell. you're in it.
And I'll see you when I get there.
Son of a bitch.
(MUSIC)
That was a good speech.
I like your style.
I don't have a style.
Yeah. you do.
(BEEPS AND BUZZING)
(BACKGROUND CHATTER)
Hit me.
Come on now.
Come on. come on now. baby.
Woo hoo!
Blackjack.
Come to papa.
Mm! There you go.
Big spender.
You're welcome.
Hey.
I tip you every time I win
and all I been doing is winning.
The least you can say is thank you.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Ungrateful motherfuckers. man.
We give you casinos. free college.
free fucking medical care.
I don't know what else you people want.
Gee. I don't know...
Maybe our land back?
Think you can MacGyver
that up for us. Wasichu?
What's that mean?
Ain't a compliment.
You fucking people.
Take. take. take. take.
take. take. take.
Hey.
I've done more to get your land back
than anybody in the past century.
We don't have our land back.
John Dutton has our land.
Yeah. and where's he at?
Rotting in a fucking bed.
waiting to die.
So. you know. You're welcome.
Are you saying you shot John Dutton?
I'm just a party planner. baby.
I just put people together.
What they do is what they do...
And what they did was clear your land.
You want it back?
Stop your bitching.
deal me cards or go fucking get it.
(MUSIC)
Woo! (TAPPING ON TABLE)
(GIGGLES)
Meter maid?
Excuse me. sir.
Could we speak to you for a moment?
Speak.
You gonna speak. fucking speak.
(GASPS)
(COUGHING. GAGGING)
Sorry for the intrusion.
So who is he?
His name is Chester Spears.
Dishonorable discharge from the Army
in 2006 for conduct unbecoming.
Did three years
in Rock Springs for robbery.
Another five years in Red Lodge
for aggravated assault.
Has arrests for check fraud.
wire fraud. two DUI convictions.
The Great White Hopeless.
Why am I looking at him?
He said he knows who hit the Duttons.
Bragged about putting it together.
(CHUCKLES)
Putting it together?
Ask him if he knows
who killed Kennedy.
Probably tell you he planned that. too.
He's a drug dealer. Mo. At best.
Drug dealers don't gamble
wads like this.
Can't afford to lose it.
He didn't win that?
These are his winnings.
See if you can help him
separate fantasy from reality.
How much pressure
before we let him cry uncle?
What they did to John Dutton
hasn't been done
since they did it to us.
We need to know
who's trying to take his land
because they're coming after ours next.
No uncles for that one.
Okay.
But tradition. I won't abandon.
Do it the way we used to do it.
Do it the way our grandfathers did it.
(MUSIC)
Motherfucker!
I'm gonna fucking kill you!
I know your face!
I know your fucking face!
- You can't fucking do this!
- Why not?
You've been doing it to us
for five hundred years.
Then kill me. motherfucker!
Go on and kill me. then!
Spend the rest of your
fucking life in a prison cell
until they shoot bleach in your veins
and you piss yourself
on your way to fucking hell!
My mother was killed by two white men
who offered her a ride
when her car ran out of gas.
I sat strapped in a car seat
for three days
before someone found me.
Hell is all I've ever known.
What are you doing?
What are you fucking doing?
We can talk about it.
(SCREAMING)
(GROANS)
So. you're the party planner.
Tell me about this party
you planned for John Dutton.
I'm hurt here. man. You really hurt...
Now you're hurt.
Tell me about this party.
- Who wanted you to plan it?
- (SPITS)
If I tell you I'm a dead man.
You're already a dead man.
Only question is how.
(CRYING)
I don't wanna fucking die. man.
I don't wanna fucking die.
You a father?
Love them?
We're at war. you and me.
When you die.
I take the war to your family.
Stop thinking about yourself.
Think about your family.
and tell me something
that will save them.
(GRUNTS)
(MUSIC)
Lloyd!
Take Jake and Ethan
and head out to pasture nine.
Start moving them heifers.
Three guys
and you're going to take seven
to doctor these few cows.
Lloyd. the boss is coming home today.
and I want people around.
You keep that between you and I.
Go on.
Jake. Ethan. you're with me. Come on.
All right. come on.
Colby. Teeter. Walker. let's go.
NURSE: Back
There you go.
JOHN: I can do...
I can do this myself.
Didn't think I was going
to make it. did you?
Never doubted it for a second.
Yeah. Liar.
Everyone else doubted.
Not me. Not once.
I can...
We need you to lay down.
I know the drill.
(GRUNTS)
(BREATHES HEAVILY)
(MUSIC)
Yeah.
How's the ranch?
We'll talk about the ranch
when we get there.
Good. Okay. let's try
the other side.
Stop.
Back up.
Great.
Oh. it's almost massage time.
Then a bath.
What happened to him?
It's on the list of things
we need to discuss.
A list of things.
A long list. Daddy.
Come on.
(MUSIC)
All this for us?
I'll see you at the house.
All right. you don't want to ride
in this piece of shit anyway.
Can we turn these flashing lights off?
Hey.
Hey...
All right. come here.
(MUSIC)
He's coming in!
One. two. three.
All right. I can walk from here.
Ow. God damn it.
Put him down.
I didn't get shot in my damn legs.
for hell's sake...
Okay.
Now what you going to do. smarty?
Two. three.
(GRUNTS)
This is more
fucking dangerous than walking.
No. No. no.
Dad. you wanted to come home.
this is what they
required to release you.
I'm released now. all right?
Their requirements. they don't matter.
Get all this shit out of here.
Sir. we're required to provide you
with the same standard of care
that you received in the hospital.
Beth. get all this shit out of here.
I...
(GRUNTS)
Oh. God. no. Let me do it.
He's got it.
There. You comfortable?
No.
Okay. he is all yours. Have fun.
I'm Maggie.
I'm here to take care of you.
You need anything.
just give that a little press.
Okay. we'll have lunch
in a couple hours
and then we'll get you bathed.
how does that sound?
- Just get some rest.
- Mm-hmm.
Please.
(MUSIC)
(SIGHS)
(MACHINE WHIRRING)
(GROANING)
MAGGIE: Oh. Mister Dutton!
No. no. no.
No. go back to your room.
(LAUGHS)
Maggie...
You're fired.
(WIND CHIMES)
I think you should stay in the lodge
until I figure this thing out.
We've. uh...
Moved into the Foreman's house.
Good. Good. Cabin's too remote.
Cabin's gone. Daddy.
They decided to kill that. too.
What...
(GRUNTS)
What else...
What else did they decide to kill?
You're home.
I'd like to end this day on a victory.
We'll talk defeat tomorrow.
(MUSIC)
What are you hunting?
Whatever's hunting us.
No one will talk to me.
Nobody will tell me what happened.
I don't have the heart.
They came after all of us.
But we beat them.
All of them?
Every one they sent.
Well. you haven't got anything
until you get the sender. son.
Yeah. Don't know the sender.
That's what we figure out next.
Yeah.
(WIND CHIMES SOUNDING)
(SNIFFS)
Goddamn. why does it feel like
the whole fucking ranch is on fire?
Burning brush piles.
Why are we burning brush piles?
We ain't burning them. Dad.
(BIRD SONG)
Smart bird.
It's not an annexation issue.
it's a formation issue.
and it's really a county issue
at this point. so...
I would wait
until the development is built.
Why incur the added regulations?
Uh-huh.
Roarke. I'll have to call you back.
Let her in.
Could I have a moment alone
with my brother. please?
So. we. uh...
We had to clear out your room.
You know. for Daddy's hospice bed.
and I found...
It's so cute.
It reminded me of when
you were just a wee lad.
- Son of a bitch...
- No. that wasn't it.
It was this...
Look me in the fucking eyes.
You're fucking crazy
and I will have you arrested.
I've waited two months
for this moment. Jamie.
Two months of praying
and bartering with God for his survival.
And guess what?
He did survive.
I thought you'd like to know that
seeing as you never visited once.
You never called once.
I called every day.
I just didn't call you.
It was you. wasn't it?
It was me what?
I want to tell you something.
And it's for me. it's not for you...
See I want you to know it now.
so you can think about it...
and not sleep and worry and dread.
I'm going to kill you.
But when I do it.
I'm not going to farm it out like you.
you fucking coward.
I'm going to do it myself.
- You think that I would...
- I'm going to kill you. Jamie.
I'm going to fucking kill you
for what you did to my family.
Think very hard about
what you're saying. Beth:
you are threatening a state official.
I am threatening
the whole fucking state.
(MUSIC)
(CHEERING ON TELEVISION)
(DOOR OPENS)
(SNIFFS)
No picnic working here. huh?
I'm here to say I'm sorry.
And I'm here to say thank you.
I'm sorry people came
after you to get to me.
That's not what you signed up for.
I'm sorry you...
I'm sorry you went through that.
Now to thank you.
And I mean it
from the bottom of my heart:
thank you for fighting back.
Thank you for protecting this place.
and protecting my family.
I'll never forget it.
Now you. uh...
you stop worrying about fighting.
Worry about cowboying.
You leave the...
You leave the fighting to me.
Good Lord. looks like you boys
could use some beer. huh?
Hmm.
Oh my goodness.
You all right to drink. boss?
Lloyd. I've come to the conclusion
that the only thing on this earth
that can kill me is me.
Any of you dipshits feel like
losing a weeks' wages to the boss?
(LAUGHING)
Can someone explain to me
how this whole deal is working out?
Oh. that.
Well. that's what you'd call
a constant state of evolution.
Well. look at the big words from Jake.
Are we playing Hold 'Em?
We can play anything
you want to lose your money to.
Just to let you know.
when we play cards we like to...
talk a lot of trash. so don't
get your feelings hurt. all right?
If one of you boys think you can
insult me. give it your best shot.
Don't mind if I do.
Alright. The game's Hold 'Em.
MAN: Three. six. king.
Got it.
(CHATTERING)
Could you point me to the restroom?
Yeah. it's just down
the hallway and to the right.
I'm going to go first. Get me a beer.
Women.
Excuse me?
I said "women."
What about us?
Life is perspective
and you don't have any.
I don't know what you're talking about.
I'm talking about your husband
leaving you here at the bar
to buy him a drink
and do Kegel exercises
while he goes and powders his nose...
when it should be the other way around.
Why... should it be the other way around?
Because you have all the pussy
and half the money.
That's why.
(LAUGHS)
I never thought of it like that.
Mm-hmm...
It's perspective.
Where's your man?
He's on our porch
waiting for me to get home.
Why aren't you?
Because I'm in a bad mood.
I don't like to take those home.
Where's my beer?
Order your own fucking beer.
And get me
a skinny margarita with Tito's.
Oh. that cheered me up.
(MUSIC)
Mmm...
Oh...
Can't you just sleep in?
Not today. sweetie.
Are you telling me no?
Got something
I need to take care of.
Damn right. you do.
You know. it's faster just to fuck me
than argue about fucking me
then still fucking me.
(LAUGHS)
Sweetheart. you don't know
what I have to do.
Something bad?
Yeah. Something bad.
More reason. then.
(MUSIC)
Excuse me.
This yours?
What?
Found it up here on the bank.
It's not mine. man.
Not yours. huh?
You sure?
I said it's not mine.
What the hell are you doing?
You sure it's not yours? Huh?
A little present from the Yellowstone.
What? No!
Ah!
(GRUNTING)
(COUGHING)
(GROANING. GAGGING)
Shouldn't be long now.
(STOPS BREATHING)
Good riddance.
(PLAIN TO SEE PLAINSMAN
BY COLTER WALL)
Let me die in the country
that I love the most
I'm a plain-to-see plainsman
and this I will boast
A heart that lie's far from
the East or West Coast
This plain-to-see plainsman
Is longin' for home
A heart that lies far
from the East or West Coast
This plain-to-see plainsman
is longin' for home
(MUSIC)